---
layout: post
title: Mom's Room
description:  Three pieces that do various things in Mom's room
date: 2018-05-15 18:32:00 -0500
last_modified_at: 2024-03-06 14:33:56 -0500
categories: [Woodworking, Furniture]
tags: [Woodworking, Red Oak, Shelves, Bookcase]
image:
  path: /thumbnails/IMG_0748.jpeg
  alt: Unfinished Skinny Desk
media_subpath: /assets/img/posts/moms-room
---
When I was starting out, I made a bunch of much needed custom things for various places in the house. Some were made specifically for Mom's room, hence the title for the post. I hope that they made her stay a little more comfortable.

## A Three Piece Set

{% include html-side.html img="IMG_0746.jpeg" align="left" %}

### The Bookcase

This bookcase is made from red oak, which basically means that it is yet another of my super-heavy, hard-to-move, pieces. Despite that, I was pretty happy with it, given it was my first shelving/bookcase project of any substance.

I was still using pocket holes at this time, nothing but pocket holes. Hey, when the only tool you have is a hammer, everything had better be a nail.

If I were doing this today, it would be very different: different joinery, different finish, different style. The thing with using pocket holes and screws is that they are great if they are totally hidden, but if you can see them, then you need to fill them, and filling them can be a pretty big chunk of work. So much so that other joinery types becomes a much better option.
{% include clear-float.html break = 1 %}

{% include html-side.html img="IMG_0748.jpeg" align="right" %}

### The Desk

This desk was custom fit to go between the wall and the foot of the bed, which is why it's a little skinny. I wouldn't want to prep my taxes on this desk, but it's perfect for setting up a notebook for Mom to play her puzzles and games.

The desk has not yet been finished, so it has that bright red oak look. I am thinking of using a natural tint on this one, maybe with just a little bit of dark thrown in. I sanded this one very smooth (600 grit I think), so if I do espresso or something of that level of black, it is going to look like a piano.

{% include clear-float.html  break= 1 %}

### The Box

{% include html-sxs.html img1="xIMG_0749.jpeg" img2="IMG_0750.jpeg" %}

This little keepsake box almost never came into being. I was making a new jig for doing box joints. In testing the new jig, I had a bunch of red oak scraps lying around so I started using those to test cut on the jig and test fit the results.

Things were going pretty well, so I said to myself, "Hey self, do you really need to throw these scraps out? They look good and the joinery is actually working well." And my self answered, "Great idea self, let's do that!"

{% include clear-float.html %}

## Materials

- Red Oak from {{ site.data.links.robertbury }}
- {{ site.data.links.generalfinishes }} black stain and polyurethane
- {{ site.data.links.kreg}} pocket screws for most of the joinery
{: .sjg-list }
