---
layout: post
title: The Daybed
date: 2019-12-17 17:58:00 -0500
last_modified_at: 2024-02-17 18:32:00 -0500
categories: [Woodworking, Furniture]
tags: [Woodworking, Daybed, Maple, Dominos]
image:
  path: /thumbnails/20240120_222026808_iOS.jpeg
  alt: Daybed All Dressed
img_path: /assets/img/posts/daybed
redirect_from: /daybed
---

This is one of my more ambitious projects, right up there with the [walnut table]({% post_url /woodworking/2024-01-22-walnut-table %}). Lots of new things attempted here, joinery I had never done before. I modelled this out in Visio (kinda like Powerpoint), and got to work.

{% include head-mypost.html %}

## Background

The Daybed ordered by the customer (Debbie), is going into her yoga room, so she wanted it painted a serene warm colour. I am not a fan of painting wood, but in this case I think it worked out well.

Cutting the boards to make the slats was fun. Lots of curved pieces had to be thrown out. I learned a lot about wood movement here, the most important thing being that there is so much of it.

## Construction - Big Glue-ups

{% include html-side.html img="20191006_210910.jpeg" align = "left" %}

### The Daybed

Yes, Daybed is to be spelled in with a leading capital in this context.

Because!!!

Big glue-up are always fun. Ten minutes is what it says on the bottle. Yikes, with this many moving parts, well that made it exciting. The customer pitched in though and we made it thru.
{% include clear-float.html break = 1 %}

{% include html-side.html img="x20191101_212037.jpeg" align = "right" %}

### Almost Ready

Waiting for paint.

The thing that made this one a bit of a hassle was that it was winter, and there was no way to do this in the garage this time of year.

{% include clear-float.html %}

## Painting

I had to clear out the main shop to make room to paint this, thankfully almost everything is on wheels. So everything was moved out, then a big paint tent was setup, and I sprayed it in there. I was wearing something akin to a haz-mat suit, too bad I don't have a picture of that (not really).

{% include html-side.html img="x20191217_214555.jpeg" align = "left" %}

### Painted

Now just some plywood for the foam to sit on, and then lug it upstairs.

{% include clear-float.html break = 1 %}

{% include html-side.html img="20191217_214541.jpeg" align = "right" %}

### Moving Day

My buddy Mike helped me lug this up the stairs from the shop to the yoga room. Was worried for a couple of minutes there that it wouldn't fit, but we made it.
{% include clear-float.html break = 1%}

{% include html-side.html img="20191225_174206.jpeg" align = "left" %}

### In Place

Ready for cushions, blankets, and pillows.
{% include clear-float.html %}

## All Done

{% include html-side.html img="20240120_222026808_iOS.jpeg" align = "center-full" %}

## The Video

{% include embed/video.html src="daybed2.mp4" muted = true title = "Daybed - 180&deg; View" poster = "thumbnails/daybed2.jpeg" %}

## Materials

- Maple hardwood from {{ site.data.links.robertbury }}
- Satin Latex Paint from Benjamin Moore
- {{ site.data.links.domino }} for the joinery
{: .sjg-list }
