---
layout: post
title: Yoga Room
date: 2020-08-08 17:58:00 -0500
last_modified_at: 2024-02-17 18:32:00 -0500
categories: [Woodworking, Furniture]
tags: [Wood, Woodworking, Yoga, Table, Taper, Maple]
image: 
    path: /thumbnails/IMG_0530.jpeg
    alt: Zen Table for Yoga Room
img_path: "/assets/img/posts/yoga-room"
---

I've made a few things for the customer's (Debbie) yoga room.  In 2020 I made an oval (ellipsoid?) table to go inside a curved wall, and a dolly/stand for her heater on casters.

{% include head-mypost.html %}

## Danger Danger

I am including a closeup pic here of the handle here because this is one of my first truly scary experiences in the shop.  I was using the router table to put a round-over on the inside and outside of the handle curves so that it was more comfortable to use, when the router bit grabbed ahold of the piece, shattered it and violently threw the many bits in all directions.  

>**Pro tip:** Shop tools are moody, downright cranky.  They are also sharp and can be nasty.  They will always win a fight, and have no remorse at all if they lop off a body part.  Let them do their thing, but keep your hands away and never try to _save_ a workpiece.  Just walk away.
{: .prompt-warning }

## The Heater Dolly

{% include html-side.html img="20200808_184843.jpeg" align = "left" %}
This is the dreaded heater dolly handle.  It looks innocuous, but is anything but.
{% include clear-float.html break = 1%}

{% include html-side.html img="20200808_184834.jpeg" align = "right" %}
I found all the bits from the router table explosion, glued them all back together, sanded it all smooth again.

They say that glued wood is stronger than the wood itself.  I certainly hope so.
{% include clear-float.html %}

## The Yoga Room Table

{% include html-side.html img="20200714_172147328_iOS.jpeg" align = "left" %}
The table for the yoga room was very fun to make.  It is a big chunk of maple to which I applied a router template to do the radius.

I think this was one of the first times I took a big gouge out of a workpiece, right on the visible edge.  The repair work took longer than the cuts did, but I think the resulting fix was pretty good.  There is no damage visible, thanks to that final coat of paint.

Note the tapered legs, a first for me.
{% include clear-float.html break = 1 %}

{% include html-side.html img="IMG_0531.jpeg" align = "center" %}
{% include clear-float.html break = 1 %}

This is a pic of the heater in place, with some spare room for a humidifier or a popcorn bowl.

Someone once said, **"A woodworker is defined by their ability to fix their mistakes."**  That person is such a jerk.
{% include clear-float.html %}

## Materials

- Maple
- Satin Latex Paint
- Kreg pocket jig and screws screws
