---
layout: post
title: End Table
description: An end table and speaker enclosure all-in-one
date: 2021-07-09 18:32:00 -0500
last_modified_at: 2024-02-17 18:32:00 -0500
category: [Woodworking, Furniture]
tags: [Woodworking, End Table, Red Oak, Furniture, Dominos]
image:
  path: /thumbnails/20210709_192858.avif
  alt: Speaker Enclosure
media_subpath: /assets/img/posts/end-table
---
## Background

This was a custom commissioned piece by the customer (Debbie). She wanted an end table to fit just right by the sectional near the pool. I wanted a place to safely store my speakers from the elements. This piece did the trick.

## Details

{% include html-side.html img="end-table-sketchup.avif" align="center" %}
{% include clear-float.html break = 1 %}
I did a couple of layouts of the table in {{ site.data.links.sketchup }}, just to get a feel for things. We went with the wider version on the right.
{% include clear-float.html break = 1 %}

{% include html-side.html img="20210709_192858.avif" align="right" %}

### Pics Needed

I wish I had taken a lot more pics while this one was under construction. It is one of my first works I can be proud of as a real piece of furniture.

Here are a couple of shots from the left and right, showing off the new finish I started using: {{ site.data.links.rubio }}.

It is an awesome product, a hard-wax oil which bonds with the wood to make it look great. Wonderful colouring, but the best thing is that it still feels like wood, instead of polyurethane which makes everything feel a little like plastic. Actually a lot like plastic!
{% include clear-float.html break = 1 %}

{% include html-side.html img="20210709_192749.avif" align="left" %}

### Bad&nbsp;Pic, Mean&nbsp;Pic

Bad shot, the espresso finish make for difficult lighting. It's one of the best I have right now.

The camera makes it appear shinier than it is in real life, where it has a nice satin finish.
{% include clear-float.html %}

### Ready To Go Outside

The outdoor speaker installed along with a custom fit power supply to keep them charged.

{% include html-side.html img="20210709_192803.avif" %}

## Materials

- Red Oak, solid and plywood veneer from {{ site.data.links.kjp }}
- {{ site.data.links.domino }} for joinery
- {{ site.data.links.blum }} European style soft-close hinges
- {{ site.data.links.rubio }} - Black with Intense Black Precolour Easy
{: .sjg-list }
