---
layout: post
title: Coasters
date: 2022-06-02 12:56:15 -0500
description: Drink coasters with a puppy theme.  You'll find it's a common theme in my work
last_modified_at: 2024-02-28 12:56:15 -0500
category: [Woodworking, Kitchen]
tags:
  [Woodworking, Walnut, Maple, Epoxy, Inlay, Kitchen, Coasters, Shaper Origin]
image:
  path: /thumbnails/IMG_0706.avif
  alt: Coasting along
media_subpath: "/assets/img/posts/coasters"
---
## Background

These coasters were probably the second project I made with the {{ site.data.links.origin }} and epoxy inlay. They turned out ok, buts that only because I threw the first four of them out. The epoxy would bleed into the surrounding wood, and when attempting to sand that out, I sanded too deep and the image was lost. I learned two things:

> **Pro tip**: 1) Seal the wood before putting down any epoxy. 2) Cut the grooves deep enough to allow for sanding.
{: .prompt-tip }

## Puppy Coasters

{% include html-side.html img="IMG_0703.avif" align="left" %}

### Happy Puppy

This little guy is my favorite. She has the same spirit and joy as our boys.

I found the design somewhere on the internet and modified it in Inkscape and then loading it onto the {{ site.data.links.origin }}.
{% include clear-float.html break = 1 %}

{% include html-side.html img="IMG_0708.avif" align="right" %}

### A Classic

The paws are definitely a classic. Very much an overdone classic, yes, but still a classic.

Fun and easy to do.
{% include clear-float.html %}

## The Whole Gang

Here are all eight of the coasters, two sets of four, one set in maple and the other in walnut.

{% include html-side.html img="IMG_0701.avif" align="center-wide" %}
{% include clear-float.html break = 1 %}

The only one I do not like is the _Picasso dog_ on the right. I found the design on the internet and modified it, like the others. Unfortunately, he reminds me of a dog that is in the middle of doing his business, and once you see that, you can't un-see it. Sorry...now you can't un-see it either.

## Materials

- Walnut and maple from {{ site.data.links.kjp }}
- {{ site.data.links.rubio }} for finish
- {{ site.data.links.origin }} for carving
- {{ site.data.links.chillepoxy }} from {{ site.data.links.kjp }}
{: .sjg-list }
